Document `ref` URIs that replace `docs/reference` shortcodes (#589)
grafana/writers-toolkit: docs/sources/shared/refs-example.md

---
date: 2024-03-18
description: An example of the `refs` front matter.
title: An example of the `refs` front matter
---

A partial front matter containing the `refs` field looks like:

```yaml
refs:
  <KEY>:
    - pattern: <URL PATH PREFIX>
      destination: <FULL URL>
    - pattern: <URL PATH PREFIX>
      destination: <FULL URL>
```

> Hugo checks each `pattern` and `destination` pair, in order, against the page's URL.
> If the page's URL matches the pattern _`URL PATH PREFIX`_, then Hugo uses `destination` as the link destination.
> If no pattern matches the current page, Hugo logs a build error.

Reviewer: Can this be less of an explanation of Hugo behaviour and more a piece of direction. I've left in a bit of tht content, but I wonder if we can even just take that out. Maybe something like (but obviously this isn't exactly right)?
```suggestion

- _`URL PATH PREFIX`_ - Enter the part of the page URL that represents the project in which these docs will appear. 
- `destination` - Enter the full URL of the destination page for that project including trailing slashes.

If the page's URL matches the pattern _`URL PATH PREFIX`_, then Hugo uses `destination` as the link destination.
If no pattern matches the current page, Hugo logs a build error.
```

---
date: 2024-03-18
description: An example of the `refs` front matter.
title: An example of the `refs` front matter
---

A partial front matter containing the `refs` field looks like:

```yaml
refs:
  <KEY>:
    - pattern: <URL PATH PREFIX>
      destination: <FULL URL>
    - pattern: <URL PATH PREFIX>
      destination: <FULL URL>
```

Hugo checks each `pattern` and `destination` pair, in order, against the page's URL.
If the page's URL matches the pattern _`URL PATH PREFIX`_, then Hugo uses `destination` as the link destination.
If no pattern matches the current page, Hugo logs a build error.

The _`FULL URL`_ destination has the same behavior as described in [Link to `grafana.com` pages](https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/links/#link-to-grafanacom-pages)

# Example

The following Markdown snippet demonstrates the `refs` front matter and link that uses a `ref` URI.

> 

Author: Fixed in c622a6f

In the [Grafana page](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/alerting/set-up/), the link destination is https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/alerting/fundamentals/data-source-alerting/.
Hugo replaces the version substitution syntax `<GRAFANA_VERSION>` with the version inferred from the current page.
For more information about version substitution, refer to [About version substitution](https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/shortcodes/#about-version-substitution).

In the page [Grafana Cloud page](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/alerting/set-up/), the link destination is https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/alerting-and-irm/alerting/fundamentals/alert-rules/.

```markdown
---

> refs:

Reviewer: Just a general question: does this mean that the references that used to live at the end of many pages will now live in the front matter?

Author: Indeed :)

Reviewer: Love the updated functionality; hate scrolling past all that front matter, lol. I'll get used to it.

>   grafana-alerting:

Reviewer: It seems like the key has to be formatted as all one word? I'm assuming that based on the hyphen in the example key. If not, then maybe don't include a hyphen in this one. If so, then we should state that explicitly.

Author: Yeah, let's get that written down, the full restrictions are technically different, but saying that it needs to be one dash-separated or underscore-separated word is easy

Author: Fixed in 749627a
